---
layout: post
title:  "Meagan's first post"
author: Meagan Bolton
description: This is my very first post, very exciting.   
image: "/assets/images/IMG_4739.JPG"
---

## Introduction
My name is Meagan Bolton and I'm finishing up my 4th year at Brigham Young University. I have about a semester left of school before I have my undergraduate degree in statistics with a double emphasis in biostatistics and data science and minors in math and computer science. It sounds like I'm doing a lot, right? Well, I'm going to tell you how I got to where I am and where I'm hoping to get.
## Picking My Major and the Biostatistics Emphasis
I applied to BYU as a biology major. In high school, I had always wanted to be a doctor. It was very important to me that I picked a path in which I could help people and genuinely make a difference in their lives. I have a genuine love for people and wanted nothing more than to feel like I was in a fulfilling position so naturally, I assumed that being a doctor was the best route. About a week before I started my freshman year at college I had a conversation with my brother-in-law where I realized that I could make a difference in people's lives and feel fulfilled doing something that I really loved and thrived in; for me that was statistics. I had taken AP Statistics in high school and had heard it was a difficult class so I decided before the semester started that I was going to read every word of the textbook to ensure I did well. I kept to that decision and read that textbook front to back over the course of that semester. I had never before felt like a subject made so much sense. Statistics felt applicable to the real world and seemed so logical. I was thrilled by the concept of the normal model and I understood why and how it worked. Once I decided to major in what I loved statistics was the easy choice. When it came to deciding what emphasis I should do I felt that biostatistics seemed to align perfectly with my desire to do fulfilling work and left a door open for me to go to medical school if I ever changed my mind.
## Deciding on My Computer Science Minor
In my second semester of college, I took a class in my major, Intro, and Application into R Programming. On the very first day of class, the first words out of my professor's mouth were "Create a new folder on your computer for this class". I had no idea what a folder was or how to create it (yes I know this is unbelievable but as I tell people all the time, I was never required to make any folders in high school. All I ever had to do was work with Google Docs so that is all I knew how to do). I went on to get a C+ in the class. My lowest grade up until that point and even for a couple of semesters after was an A-. I had never gotten a C in my life and I was devastated. I realized that coding and technology was an area that I clearly needed to work on. I didn't feel very competent in my work and I knew that I was going to need to figure it out. I wanted to make sure that this wasn't going to be something that held me back. I decided to pick up a computer science minor to improve in this area that I felt especially weak in. I hadn't intended to finish the minor, I had only planned on taking enough classes until I felt competent in my ability to do the necessary code for my field. I think it was my second computer science class that I realized how much I enjoyed the challenge that it brought. Computer science felt like a brain teaser. It felt like a challenging game that I couldn't get enough of. Here I am about 5 semesters after deciding to do a computer science minor and I have two classes left in the minor. I currently have a 4.0 and have never gotten below an A in a computer science class (that is until after this semester, I can pretty much guarantee I won't get an A in my current CS class). Computer science is easily the area/subject I have seen the greatest intellectual growth. Prior to starting college, I knew nothing about technology and now I feel not only capable but knowledgeable about it. I never would've thought this was going to be something I'd do yet alone love but it's become one of the biggest things in my life and I can genuinely say that I adore it.
## Picking Up an Emphasis in Data Science
After picking up a computer science minor I realized my love for coding and technology. I realized that it was a world that I wasn't ready to leave behind and wanted to incorporate more into my long-term profession. Upon this realization, I looked more into a data science emphasis as the data science world was extremely intriguing to me. Data science used all the elements that I had developed a passion for and combined them into the same field. It felt as though I took statistics and was able to expand on it, increasing the knowledge I could gain from data. Looking into the data science emphasis I realized that if I completed my CS minor and biostatistics emphasis I was only two classes away from completing the data science emphasis as well and that's when I decided to do it. This semester I'm in my first data science-specific class I can honestly say I've never had a class that has felt so applicable to what I want to do. It has been every bit as exciting as I'd hoped it would. I feel that it's opened the door to a whole new level of data analytics. There's more information I can access and more ways to interact with the data. The world of data science seems to have never-ending opportunities and engages me in an intellectual way that sparks constant interest and growth. It's not only extremely captivating and interesting to me but also the mental challenge that I have been looking for.
## Adding a Math Minor
Growing up math was always something that came very naturally to me. It made sense in a logical way. I felt that it was finally something that I didn't have to memorize but instead, something that I could usually piece together like a puzzle. I enjoyed figuring out why you'd use various equations or how the equations worked. In my sophomore year of high school, I came home from getting back scores on my math exam to tell my mom that I had received a 92 on the exam. I went on to tell her that even though I had gotten a 92 I had actually received a 100 because the mistakes I made were things like misreading my handwriting, making mistakes on simple math calculations, things that weren't reflective of a lack of knowledge but instead were reflective of not paying close enough attention to what I was doing. Her response to me was something along the lines of, "You did not ACTUALLY receive a 100 though because you DID make those mistakes. If they are mistakes that you know better than to make slow down and fix them, put more thought into your work, and check over it". From that day on I did put more thought into my work. I went on receive a perfect score on every test in that class afterward, then when I went into preAP precal I got 100 in the class, then I got a 100 in AP Statistics, then again when I took cal 1 and 2. I received a perfect score in every math class I took in high school after my first year. Math was something I loved and felt that I was very good at. I enjoyed the thought that went into working on the problems. When I saw that my biostatics emphasis required me to take math classes through Calculus 3 I knew that minoring in math was a no-brainer. I was already required to take so many math classes and I love math so when I looked at the minor requirement and saw that I'd only need to take 2 extra classes to get the minor was thrilling. I signed up for the minor immediately. After a couple of years in school, I realized that my CS minor and my major would fulfill all the requirements for the math minor without taking an additional class. At this point, I have officially finished the minor and have TAd for my linear algebra professor and now do research for him in the math education department.
